Dear Teacher, I am a new convert to
Buddhism. I want to diligently practice
but I don't have the means to go to the temple. So,
which scriptures should I read and study first, and how should I study them? Please
share your insights with me, Teacher Hoan Hi. And I would like to ask you, Teacher, this
is a new convert to Buddhism.
I think the common psychology of those new to Buddhism is that they are
very eager to see
what they will learn and how.
This person is very eager to learn. They are asking
which scriptures they should study first and
how they should study them. Teacher, please share about the
laziness of Buddhists when they first enter the Buddhist path. It's very interesting. First, I want to let many people know that this issue is not part of
this question, but it is also a part of what prevents
Buddhist disciples from
practicing the Dharma. First, we
must contemplate
who we are. If we are lay people, we
should seek knowledge relevant to lay
people. If we are monastics, we should
seek knowledge relevant to
monastics.  The teachings of
monastics are something lay people can refer to.
Monastics need to
know these teachings, but not necessarily to practice them.
Many people, when studying
Buddhism, look for it online, and
immediately think that they understand the so-called "higher" teachings of monastics. They believe that
this is sufficient understanding.
Because of this lack of understanding,
the situation arises
where lay people are discussing Buddhist teachings, and
they jump in,
criticizing and arguing, like one person talking about chickens and the other about ducks. They're talking about people going to make offerings, and they're saying things like, "
Why do you have to make offerings to practice
Buddhism? What is the root of
Buddhism?" They're just going to make offerings
instead of practicing until
liberation. That's the
situation. That kind of thinking causes
chaos on social media. For those of
you practicing like this, you can
see that you
have too much ego and therefore don't engage in
debate with others.  What are you doing? But sometimes
you guys interfere in my posts, so I
have to
speak up. A
layperson is someone who still
holds possessions. Here, my possessions are
my parents, my wife, my children. So, if my
possessions are
depleted, I suffer; if my wife or husband betrays me, I suffer; if my child goes astray, I suffer.
If I am
unfilial, I feel pain. That's why I
came to the Dharma of the Buddha. I learn
how to be at peace with those sufferings,
that's the first thing. The second thing is
how to lessen that suffering. As a lay
Buddhist, we must seek
that knowledge to learn. As for the
basic knowledge, we only need to know
that a monastic is someone who no
longer holds onto anything. They have given everything away.
They have no wife, no
possessions, no children, and they
are walking on a path without a self.
Therefore, they must use the practice of the
Dharma to reach ultimate liberation.
When talking to lay Buddhists,
don't discuss material things; instead, focus on teaching and learning the
Dharma that serves you, and
discuss things
relevant to you. For example, kindergarten students
discuss toys – "
this toy, that toy," "that toy," "coloring," "
learning to read," or "drawing." University
students discuss
knowledge,
careers, and work. That's how it is in the secular world.
But when entering the
Buddhist path, things get mixed up. Even though you're just starting out,
you're still living your life
at home, yet you're constantly
discussing the lives of ordained monks and nuns,
criticizing some for being good and
others for not being good. Therefore,
I only advise that if you are a lay
Buddhist disciple, you should find scriptures
about karma and morality
for lay people to study. As for ordained monks and
nuns, you only need to know that they
have renounced everything;
they must practice the precepts and
sever all attachments.  Regarding attachment,
they've already given up everything.
But if their minds are directed outward,
they crave external material things; that's when greed arises.
But if they've already given up everything, then all that
remains is the reputation
within the monastic community. As for
food, lunch is just that much; begging for alms is enough to fill their
stomachs. Besides that, what
other possessions do they keep? Three robes, a begging bowl, and after
death, they leave behind only three robes, a begging bowl, and
this body. So, for those who are greedy,
when they have renounced the world, their greed
is lessened. They have renounced the world,
so when you don't practice,
sometimes you might say, "Oh my god, even after becoming a monk, they're still
greedy, still doing this and that." People who have given up greed, what's the point of
that money? You need to find clear examples. They
build temples and pagodas for us to
sit in, not for the monks to do
anything else. They don't have private houses, wives, or children.
If they were greedy for a wife, they'd take that money home to their
wives, which would be called greed for the money of the lay devotees,
but there's nothing left, only a
meal.  Regarding meals, the stomach only has
that much, so what can you say about it?
Therefore, you don't think thoroughly, and
your criticisms are incorrect.
But this criticism also stems from the fact that
you, as Buddhists, have read too much of
the teachings of ordained monks and nuns,
so you don't know how to practice. You read
one teaching and then
criticize another,
so you don't cultivate at all and
instead create karma. That's why I'm
analyzing it like this so you can see the
consequences of incorrect practice.
Now, you should only find scriptures that you can
contemplate and listen to the Dharma about cause and effect. Whatever
tells us about suffering,
what is the cause of suffering, but it must
correspond to the perspective of a lay person. For example,
in your life, you must recognize
what is causing you suffering, see
its cause, and how to solve
it. This is only for lay people.
When you see it and become
enlightened, you will realize that in
this world, you can truly avoid suffering and its
cause in the next life.  That
means avoiding creation is very difficult. In reality, it's
hard for a creator to avoid creation because creation
still gives rise to suffering. At that point, if you become a
monk, you will practice the Dharma of those who
have left the monastic life. So, according to you, I suggest you visit the
Ba Vang Temple website. First,
listen to the Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra to
gain knowledge about the things
you need to know about this world, to
understand this world, to understand the
world, about the circumstances and the mind, what
leads to suffering. You will know. Then, you should visit the
Sutra of the Buddha's Teachings, also known as the Nikaya Sutra.
You will learn a lot about blessings,
family happiness, and many other
things to practice in your
current life. Yes, thank you very much, and I
hope that you and your questions will find the
right method to
determine who you are and what you are like, in order
to find the
best method of practice. On this occasion, I also
have another question I would like to ask you, and I
hope you can share it. There was a karmic connection
that day when I and some other guys...
I was eating at a vegetarian restaurant and
there was a staff member who
shared that he had been
practicing Buddhism for some
time. He asked
where and how we were practicing, and I
heard that we were practicing the Golden Mantra. He
shared
his views, saying that he had read
a lot about various Buddhist schools, including those where people attained
enlightenment while still
laypeople. Therefore, he believes
that one doesn't
need to become a monk or nun to attain
enlightenment; laypeople
can practice and achieve it. It seemed
quite difficult to understand, but we
knew it
might not be true, and we couldn't
explain it to him. Since
you mentioned
how laypeople practice, I really hope
you can share your insights so that we can find a way to help
us.  The
most accurate answer, I invite you, ma'am. The path of
spiritual practice doesn't depend on whether you're a layperson
or a monastic. The ultimate goal
is to eradicate greed and attachment to attain enlightenment.
If you're a layperson and you eradicate greed and attachment, you'll attain enlightenment. If you're a layperson and you do
n't eradicate greed and attachment,
you'll never attain enlightenment. For example, if
you still possess possessions—for instance, imagine
someone comes to you with
1 million dong in your pocket and you need to pay
for your child's tuition—but they steal it. They
laugh, "Oh, it's gone!" Well, that's okay,
because you still have your child. "It's gone?
" "I'll go work to earn the 1
million dong for tuition." That means you're free and independent. "Honey, I'm
going to karaoke tonight." "Really?" Then they're
gone for two days and don't come back. When they finally return, they say, "Returned?" "Returned?" That's okay, of course.
But then they say, "
Why, now that you're back, you haven't attained enlightenment? You wo
n't get paid for this month's work?" "Honey, I
need my salary for this month." "You did
n't get paid for the revenue?" "That's okay too."
So, you can say...  The owner of
the shop said that this guy is practicing
asceticism. He challenged him for a year, saying, "Don't pay
him, just give him food. When he finally
says 'Is that so?', then he will progress in his spiritual path." This
means that lay practitioners are very free and
never let go of any negative thoughts
when things don't go their way, and they never
let go of any positive thoughts when things go their way.
Their minds become calm and peaceful,
and they will attain enlightenment. Lay practitioners
need this, and so do monastics.
But lay people are bound by so many
circumstances that we
can't simply answer, "Is that so?" For
example, if a shop owner doesn't pay you, and your wife asks, "Hey,
why are
you spending money on women after working for months?" and
scolds you, "Oh, really?", then she takes
you to the hospital for a psychiatric examination. These are
the circumstances that make it
very difficult for lay people to practice in this day and age.
But why is it easier for lay people to practice? Firstly,
you live alone, you have nothing else, you just practice
like this. Secondly, you have too much
wealth; anyone who takes your possessions will
never get rid of them.  The person who takes it is the same,
meaning you are fortunate. And
how many people are not good to you? You are the same.
Because you are so strong,
you want to let go, you let go
very easily. That person... Everything is the same,
and their heart feels that
wealth is meaningless because they don't
go looking for it anymore. In times of
pain and illness, they see that wealth
can't cure them, and their loved ones
can't do anything for them. At that very
moment, they suddenly realize and attain
enlightenment. That is the karmic connection. But the person who is
too poor, always struggling to provide for their
children and wife, even when invited to a
birthday party, they don't have money and have to borrow from everyone.
That person lacks the karmic connection and fortune,
yet they still have to worry about
worldly matters, so they cannot attain enlightenment.
Yes, thank you very much, teacher.
[music]
C